Grids AI Assistant: Add API Descriptions Part 2 (#8767)
DevExpress/devextreme-documentation: api-reference/10 UI Components/dxDataGrid/1 Configuration/aiAssistant/customizeResponseText.md

---
id: dxDataGrid.Options.aiAssistant.customizeResponseText
type: function(command)
---
---
##### shortDescription

> Customizes AI Assistant response texts for each requested command.

Reviewer: We should avoid "texts" (plural). "Text" is uncountable and if you say "texts" it's closer to something like "manuscripts". 

I'm also not sure about the phrase "requested command". You usually "run" or "execute" a command. You don't "request a command". Or a "request" can be a synonym for a "command". 

```suggestion
Customizes AI Assistant response messages for each command/request.
```

Author: In this case, commands are only requested and not yet executed, so something along the lines of "executed command" would be inaccurate. However, I think we can omit the word "requested"

##### param(command): DataGridCommandInfo
Information about the command.

##### return: ResponseStatusTexts

> Custom texts for **success** and **failure** response statuses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom messages for **success** and **failure** responses.
```

---

> **customizeResponseText** is called for each command. Use this function to customize response messages for AI Assistant commands. The chat displays these message strings below the response title. When a response includes multiple commands, the chat displays individual messages on separate lines.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**customizeResponseText** is called for each command. Use this function to customize response messages for AI Assistant commands. The chat displays these messages below the response title. If a response includes multiple commands, the chat displays each message on a separate line.
```

> Use this function to customize response message texts for AI Assistant commands. **customizeResponseText** is called for each requested command. The AI Assistant chat displays these texts below the response title. When a response includes multiple commands, the chat displays each command's text on separate lines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**customizeResponseText** is called for each command/request. Use this function to customize response messages for AI Assistant commands. The chat displays these message strings below the response title. When a response includes multiple commands, the chat displays individual messages on separate lines.
```

> When a command succeeds, the AI Assistant chat displays the response text in green and prefixes the text with a checkmark button emoji (✅). When a command fails, the AI Assistant chat displays the text in red and prefixes with a cross mark emoji (❌) instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a command succeeds, the AI Assistant chat displays the response in green and prefixes the text with a checkmark button emoji (✅). When a command fails, the AI Assistant chat displays the response in red and prefixes the text with a cross mark emoji (❌).
```

The **command** parameter contains the following fields:

- **name**: The command's name ([DataGridPredefinedCommandNames]({basewidgetpath}/Types/DataGridPredefinedCommandNames/)).
- **args**: Command arguments. Refer to [DataGridPredefinedCommands]({basewidgetpath}/Types/DataGridPredefinedCommands/) for information about the arguments of each available command.

Configure **customizeResponseText** to return an object with the following fields:

- **success**: Text to display when the command succeeds.
- **failure**: Text to display when the command fails.

> Omit a field in the return object to use default texts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't specify any of these fields, the AI Assistant chat displays the default message. 
```

> You can use this function to translate response texts. The following code snippet uses the [locale()](/Documentation/ApiReference/Common/Utils/localization/#locale) method to specify texts for multiple locales:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use this function to localize response text. The following code snippet uses the [locale()](/Documentation/ApiReference/Common/Utils/localization/#locale) method to specify text for multiple locales:
```
